gonna wait for the greenside okay boom
good okay we had some tough technical
demo let's try together okay so anyway
brother welcome thanks man thanks things
so what we were saying before we
actually said this already but let's say
it again because the people didn't hear
it you were one of the pioneers of
stand-up comedy in Brazil yeah yeah it
was I started with like four or five
guys we started doing like 16 17 years
ago and nobody knew about stand-up it
was something that I found out when I
came here to live and play basketball I
had a scholarship to play basketball and
I watched Jim Gaffigan oh wow and Brian
Regan ah I know those guys and I thought
was so weird because those guys were
like that's I was questioning is his
does he call is his name
Brian Regas he is actually him because
we used to have characters and
impersonators so it was kind of weird
but at the same time it was interesting
because I'm not a guy who does
characters and I do observations and I
write I was a journalist I have degree
in journalism so it was interesting for
me to see those guys doing comedy and I
thought we could do the same in my
country it's so crazy that it took that
long for it to get to Brazil yeah you
would think that because everything else
I mean you guys have movies you know I
mean City of God you have action movies
you're always you have so much that's so
similar the fact that stand-up comedy
made it there is so unusual it took it
took a long time it was I don't know why
but the image of a comedian speaking
like with a blazer or like a suit or
something was very sign for me it was
very American you know and those jokes
did they actually connect that much with
us like oh I have those pockets and it
was something that we have bigger
problems than oh I just have a pocket or
whether I put my pen I was like it was
it was something that I could we
couldn't connect that much but when we
when we saw there was a lot of people
doing other stuff and there was like
this huge role that we could actually
explore that was when it becoming true
for us so comedy in Brazil they would
basically be like like say if I was a
Brazilian comedian I would come up with
a fake name if you would and I would do
a character a wig a wig I wear a certain
outfit outfit like very over-the-top
screaming and and that's still this new
exists in Brazil this is like a popular
part of the people mm-hmm stand up I'm
not saying that is for everyone now I
have my Netflix special it's becoming
huge because we have some other options
right now with internet everything
changed the game changed completely so
we have what is good has his own space
right now it's not only what the TV
wants you to watch it so the game
changed a little for and for all of us
so how did you start out did you start
out by going to music clubs or it was I
actually starting a a BDSM Club a
sadomasochism Cox in the back like
vaginas a huge vaginas and we had that
show and he was it wasn't good but it
was an experience for all of us to go on
stage and try to to show them our
opinions and our jokes and some irony
and sarcasm we wish which was something
that people wasn't watching but then it
becomes it becomes something huge and we
got chances to go to TV and everything
else but at first it was difficult
because people could not understand is
here character he's he playing a part
right so that's why I had and I still
have a lot of problems with the law
because like I did a rape joke which I'm
not proud of I'm saying it's not
something at all I'm so over the over
the line but it was like does he does
this guy wants people to be raped what
is what is he thinking what is because
with all those jokes was taken out of
context and put it on newspapers and
kinda killed you kind of killed my
desire to do comedy over that as well
yeah it was it was difficult man because
he was like journalist journalist in the
audience waiting for me to say some shit
move out of context and then guide like
fucking like billions of clicks on their
websites because or joke I did yeah
that's how we the controversy was
starting over there no no it's the same
thing here so they knew that this was a
new thing yeah they and then so they
would come to see it and then what were
they criticizing it before this he was
he was huge everybody loves to that
worst but when big when man when we
start to have money and TV shows and we
kind of ran away out of the underground
I was being shows at midnight like
packing at three 300-seat theater at
midnight in Brazil that was my thing
underground in Sao Paulo in the middle
of nowhere but then people out this
guy's talented let me give him a chance
so they put me on TV and I don't know
where I was on TV doing the same thing
Wow so that would be the country was not
that prepared for what I was doing at
the time what kind of laws do you have
in Brazil in terms of like the language
you're allowed to use on television you
know that I'm not saying there's like a
government censorship about what you can
say what you cannot say but sponsors and
and even TV stations and the media is
very sensitive about everything because
it's to a poor country it's you know
Brazil to a third-world country so we
are we are like we have a lot of people
that don't understand oh this is comedy
what's what's comedy so right it was my
duty to explain a little bit what was
stand-up and kind of an open a road for
all of us that's how I felt
so you and you said three others it was
like three or four guys yes so who are
these other guys they're still doing
comedy yeah yeah they're still doing
this - Hugh what are their names
Marcelo Mansfield Donny losing chilli
Oscar feel you there was a small group
of guys that we started doing
Brazilian Portuguese
beautiful language I love it I love it's
like a song it's like it's see I've been
doing jujitsu ever yeah
23 years so it's like to me that sound
is like it's such a cool sound what do
the weather's Brazil say in Jersey says
that is that a word or something that
they're still repeating that you know
well I mean you know poha
we just come is that fucker come but
sometimes although sometimes you say it
like damn yeah but it's come it's come
but so that's funny cause like that's
like the word shit yeah like shit could
be like you could look at something go
shit yeah that's good in Portuguese this
matter but shit can also be bad yeah you
know like well fuck - like fuck could be
good or fuck could be bad like you could
stub your tongue go fuck or you could
you can see a girl with a beautiful body
go fuck yeah yeah but Paul has the same
thing that's so crazy
you getting a chalkboard so funny man
language is difficult man yeah me so to
speak in English but I was I wasn't a
you know I was thinking about it that
black people has to stop using the
n-word in rap songs because B becomes a
trap for Medicare yoki I was singing
karaoke at the end of the song this guy
came up to me was like don't drop the
n-word man but he wasn't the song so
what should I do not sing so that the
language is something that is I'm feel
like learning there's it's difficult man
well it's very tricky I mean it's
obviously in America there's this sort
of acknowledgment that black people were
slaves for so long they are allowed to
do more things in particular gotta use
that word okay there's no other word
like in terms of like a like a bad word
about an ethnicity know that people use
for them selling like a Puerto Rican
person would never call himself a spic
in like a good
what's up speck like to another puerto
rican wouldn't its vid the n-word is a
very unique word like there's no word
really cannot say in any situation i
could say it if I'm explaining it like
this guy called that guy a nigger
okay say that but even saying that
people some people wouldn't do that
I'm not I would never call someone that
okay but I will use it if i if I'm
quoting someone or if I'm explaining
okay word itself because to run away
from the joke is even yeah is even
harder because your knowledge that
that's up forbidden word
so yeah that's Chris Rock had one of the
greatest bits of all time with you that
there are black people and there are
niggers this was his joke but even for
me to say that that was a joke and to
say it that way is dangerous and it's
one of the greatest comedy routines in
the history of stand-up that's crazy
yeah but a white person could never
quote that Chuck you can't do the joke
like if you try to do it a joke to your
friend like you doesn't look around
Chris Rock is so funny when I tell you
the bit you'd have to be really careful
there's no way you could do the whole
joke on a podcast no let's just you say
the word the n-word too many times
people get mad at you that's crazy
you know racism is crazy the fact that
there's still racism that's what's crazy
the word is just sort of like a it's
it's emblematic it's it's like there's a
there's a thing there that connects it
to the feeling of racism even if you're
not using it in a racist context yes so
for me I'm a foreigner so I was never so
aware of racists like I am now living in
this country
yeah brazil's no racism is very mild
very different that is racism i cannot
say that there is not racism of course
that is but here is like when there's
election they even say how the white
folded and how the black folded yeah
that's kind of weird because for me
that's racism you're you're like
dividing people races and it's clear on
TV mm-hmm and sometimes you don't even
stop thinking about it it's like it's
part of the whole thing well it's
because
the black community doesn't feel like
they're represented and they felt like
they were represented finally when Obama
became president because finally we had
a black president but other than that
you know there's a real distinction like
with Obama it was like almost universal
he was gonna get air quotes the black
vote you know but with Trump I mean it's
or with anybody else it's it's very
tricky it's very it's a very different
thing they want to make sure that their
community is being represented and that
their needs are being represented I
completely understand and I agreed that
there's not some acknowledgement to make
the history but at the same time and
knowledge II make divided you can for
divides you a little bit as well yes it
does and it's also used as a weapon by
some people that you know and are not
they're not being honest they're just
using it as a tool to divide people or
to force their agenda through or you
know again the real problem is not the
words the real problem is not if the
real problem is actual real racism
that's the real problem it still exists
it exists less than it did a hundred
years ago and far less than it did two
hundred years ago and a hundred years
from now it will probably be almost
non-existent but it's a real problem
people are tribal they differentiate by
town people differentiate by what part
of the country you're from
they certainly differentiate by nation
and they differentiate by the origin of
your ancestors it's it's really stupid
as what it is you know unless you're
just celebrating the differences and how
interesting you know there's different
food and different music and different
culture and literature but the you know
actual real racism the fact that it
still exists in 2008 is crazy
I got a in that is of racism Brazil was
I'm not saying that there's not raising
more mild Yahoo's there because
interracial relationships are much more
common if you see like a but a black guy
with a wife wallet it's not it's nobody
that's gonna say shit it's normal it's
not something that people write like
pointing or something
I don't think so but there's parts of
this country where it's it's a real
problem there's parts of this country
where there's real racism on a black man
with a white woman is in danger you know
they have to be careful they go into the
wrong bar or they have to be careful if
they go into the wrong play
it's fucking great that's crazy yeah it
is crazy there is a some fan of a it's
not it's not a hundred percent of time
that I feel comfortable here yeah
there's a lot of situations that I have
I feel that I can say the wrong thing
because I don't understand cuz you don't
understand like yeah you had when did
you learn English I play basketball here
oh so you learn to be in order to play
he was yeah III ed were you at the time
was this was 1999 I was 23 at the time
I'm 42
mmm so it was 1999 I play basketball
here and I learned English and that's
when I got a first time I saw stand by
me man I was like fuck that's that's so
easy
wow that was 1999 so when you brought it
over to Brazil when you brought over
stand-up did you guys get together and
say hey let's try to do this over here
where can we do it
I had three friends that knew about it
he's a kind of a cult a secret cult of
people who knew about stand-up and we
were like let's try it but the only the
only image that we have was signed for
at the end of every every episode that
was the that was the thing for us that's
the only reference I still remember that
the first video that were like talking
about what we were doing we were like oh
this is stand-up now we'll d-do you did
you ever see every episode of sine flat
the end he does like a new routine oh
this is what he gonna do on the theater
right now so that's when we wanted to do
it and and it took some time because we
started in 2002 2003 and YouTube just
came on 2005 but when YouTube came there
was like a lot of people posting stand
up and little like 30 minutes Comedy
Central specials and Natalie Lucy and
and it was difficult at first because of
everything that I was writing I could
see people doing on TV my jokes it was
hard for me to explain to people this is
my joke like someone stole your job yeah
it was not even like stealing because
they didn't just joke right it's just a
joke how can I explain to people okay
this is what I wrote I'm not
do jokes that other people wrote right
this is it's mine
yeah people thought I was a little crazy
oh that's funny
Wow because you know I don't know if you
have this anecdotes that everybody saves
you you have here oh yeah okay we have
stand-up where people write their own
stuff and we have anecdotes sure and
that's what we had like little books
with animals so when I say a joke people
think that I was doing from those books
yeah there's stand-up comedy and then
there's jokes like that people tell we
call them Street joke Street jokes oh
yeah like two Jews walk into a bar those
jokes are so interesting because I don't
know anybody who's ever written one of
those jokes I do I don't but but if you
think about it that's a good timing it's
something that every time that I see
like one of those good joke good Street
joke I was like fuck I wanted to fucking
I want me to create that thing yeah but
it's it's interesting because there's so
many of them and no one knows anyone who
wrote them there's so that was one guy
in Brazil was doing those three jokes
and he created like 10% of what he done
interesting but for him was like this is
what I created it denied the 90% that I
didn't create it's kind of in the same
chunk I don't know now when Seinfeld
airs in Brazil I assume that it's
translated to Portuguese is dubbed it's
dubbed and when it's dubbed is it dubbed
well does it make sense no no no does
the jokes translate yeah stand up wise
now no series works nice now we got much
better dubbing you got much better
I really but it's crazy we have
subtitles as well like my Netflix
special has subtitles here in America so
subtitles for English yes Wow so you do
it in Portuguese yes have you said do
you do much stand-up in English yeah I
having to say I'm here for for eight
months like all the clubs and being The
Improv and factory and now but here I do
it in English I think what I do on stage
now is something that I wrote leaving
here like 80% and 20% I translated for
my act in Portuguese Wow and some of
those jokes don't work when I translate
and it's always a
price yeah always is the culture so
different yeah what people think is
funny and what they find ironic but Joe
a joke is a joke man
yeah if has a tie me if I now I'm able
to do at the same pace that I do in
Portuguese I feel comfortable doing in
English so I feel the same thing and
it's easier for me because I actually
write jokes mm-hmm I have some friends
that just like has some crowd work and
interact with the audience and there's a
lot of physical comedy in it so to
translate that to English is difficult
yeah I write jokes yes so if I translate
in a right way if he if people
understand the context and people
understand that I'm talking about like
the pregnancy of my wife right and
marriage and I don't know being single
and everything or maybe that he can work
now when you what was it like the first
time you did stand-up in America the
first time in English I actually have a
clip on YouTube that the Laugh Factory
posted Wow he was it was very surprising
it was very surprising because some
jokes that I didn't think was that funny
worked and the ones that I was actually
pretty sure they would work didn't work
you know it's so frustrating completely
lost man it was like is this is gonna be
a huge role for me yeah and I have been
doing this is what I'm this is why I'm
here you know to stand up in English now
what now stand up since it's been you
know you said 16 years or seniors in
Brazil is it accepted now that a normal
part of the culture yeah
have they had comedy clubs open up here
I have my comedy club really where is it
is in Sao Paulo last comedians is a 300
seat place just like The Improv Wow is a
great place I have in Brazil and there's
enough local comedy yes
yeah that's incredible it does now I
have like like on a Saturday I have
three packed shows
night back shows like of them I'm
getting some polish you yeah he's a huge
city there's like 15 million people yeah
that's Wow that's 15 million people live
in Sao Paulo it's so cool in Portuguese
yeah there's no setup in English in
Brazil because unfortunately that's not
that many people that speaks English in
Brazil yeah I know they were trying to
organize shows like Jade was trying to
get people to come to Brazil to stand up
when I was like yeah good luck with that
that just seems like it doesn't seem
like there's enough people Jade open for
me in Portuguese in Brazil Wow and she
helped me a little bit of the beginning
here opening some clubs and getting me
some gigs she's a very good friend and
for her it was a little difficult in
Portuguese how to translate English to
porch it was yeah first because what you
guys there's a culture that there's a
stand-up culture here mm-hmm if you're
this freaky and a little crazy and
hippie that's something that does not
translate to another country right you
have to actually write jokes yeah yeah
yeah and and for her it was a little
difficult because she has this way of
doing it like interacting and it she's
like and if you mess up a word in
Portuguese it's in English if you mess
up a word in English it's kind of funny
oh it's a foreigner they accept you
there's this likeability mm-hmm but if
you mess up on your Portuguese you're a
prick
really yeah oh so you don't speak
Portuguese
oh you just speak English I see yeah
that makes sense because America is such
a melting pot there's so many different
languages out here someone well that's
you know I've read something the other
day like if you see someone and they
speak broken English don't make fun of
them that means they speak two languages
yes yes and you don't of course I mean
most of us don't in Portuguese is
similar to Spanish so people who speaks
Portuguese speak Spanish so I kind of
just beat reeling that's that's that's
that's a lot well that helped Fabricio
Werdum in Mexico because he's so fluent
in Spanish that you know when he was
over there fighting you know they were
like holy shit this guy speaks perfect
Spanish
he's from the same city that I am which
is Porto Alegre city in the south so we
kind of have some Spanish in the city
it's close to to Argentina oh I see it's
kind of is our thing there okay cool so
now when you were doing stand-up and you
started to get in some trouble for bits
a lot of trouble a lot of how much
trouble yeah a lot of money I spent a
lot of money really yeah I lost a lot of
sauces I lost a lot of lawsuits because
of jokes really awesome yeah
so I cou was suing you the people who
felt offended so people in the audience
artists when I make fun of a celebrity
they would sue yeah they can they can
sue you they can get money out of really
well the TV shows they can get out so
who sued you you know I got this this
loss so that really put me in trouble it
was because of a singer it was she was a
singer and kind of I was cute my career
you actually did that's why I'm here
yeah I got on a huge lawsuit and it
looks dumb when you explain oh it's just
a singer but it becames all this talk
about freedom of speech and what
comedians can say and what they cannot
say are you allowed to feel offended and
now there's like law schools talks about
the lawsuit that I had Law School
discussions discussions a case yeah
because I made fun it was a shitty joke
that's the problem
you know it's not because the lawsuit I
want to be sued by the good ones because
known by a bad joke of course yeah it's
just like I was saying this was it's
just like you meeting uh Eddie Murphy
one of the greatest comedians I really
think oh there's dr. Dooley do you don't
want that right now this is the same
thing with me that joke was a shitty
joke and she was like bragging on TV as
she was like doing a story on TV and I
was the host of this huge TV show like
The Daily Show like the
Daily Show meeting the view it was
something like that and and in the
middle of the thing she was shows there
and my friend asked me oh she's pregnant
and do you think she's still hot and I
said she's so hot that I would fuck her
in her baby and shit but it was life it
was like right on time everybody left
and there was no problem but next week
it was this huge thing because she was
like her husband was very influential
and her husband was managing run out
which was one of the biggest soccer
player ever so that was this whole thing
the TV show Lost sponsors and and they
want to suspend me from the TV show
because the fat joke that I did mmm she
didn't tell they didn't tell me to
apologize at first but he suspended me
so I quit the show they didn't know so
you just apologized and I decided not to
apologize because I felt that after like
ten years don't standard or twelve years
doing stand-up it was important for me
to like put my feet on the ground and
say you know if we step back right now
yeah what am i what am I gonna do in
like two years this is important for all
of us yeah it's important for comedy so
I lost Lhasa to las movies Ella's so
what did they what did they rule in the
lawsuit
like what was the ruling I offended her
honor or the I was something like that
she is like the people can sue you the
suing is part of the democracy it's okay
to sue you but a lot to lose a lawsuit
is that's the problem I lost like one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars or
more in Brazil was three hundred and
fifty thousand reais oh right if you're
a lawyer and you get ten thousand
dollars a month you get ten thousand
Eisenmann so he's you don't translate
money so I lost a lot of money but the
thing is got me a huge headache and uh
he was it was it was bad it was bad just
from that one just for that one but you
use another lawsuit yeah how also
because I did it like a rape joke and
and I got like this women movement like
trying to break break into my bar and
break my the door of my comedy club and
there was like that was but the
discussion was more important than the
problem itself I kind of fun it was is
the discussion about freedom of speech
and that was that was huge what is
freedom of speech like in Brazil is it
the same mean obviously we have the
First Amendment do you have something
that we don't we don't have that we
don't have that in Canada we don't have
that I had Mike Ward on in Canada do you
know his story yeah I know he's the guy
who he made a joke about a sick boy that
the boy was still alive you know I
thought it was and you know it was just
a bad joke about this guy still being
alive and can he get his money back cuz
like because they donated money this
fucked-up joke but it's supposed to be a
fucked up joke who's doing it in a
nightclub situation where people are
drinking you say things that are
inappropriate and that's the art form he
got sued and he's still in the process
of it right now there's another case in
Vancouver where these women were
heckling they were yelling things out
during the show and then the comedian
went onstage and berated the women and
then the women sued and won because they
were lesbians and he made some lesbian
jokes about them at their own expense
and so then they took him to court and
they won and they won what they won some
judgment where he had to pay them
I wanted Jimmy how much was it I want to
say it was somewhere in the neighborhood
of $30,000
yeah when and for this gentleman this
comedian I think that was a lot of money
I don't know forty to forty two thousand
dollars yeah that's a lot of fucking
money for opening comedian I mean he
wasn't a famous guy so you know that
might be two years worth for him who
knows you know yeah lost a lot of money
so Canada is similar can't Canada does
not have freedom of speech the same way
the United States does yeah so that
that's why I feel what I do comedy here
and I feel that people get uncomfortable
about a joke or two that's when I get a
stress it's like you have the Feder of
saying those things yes like I have this
joke that I say it is about the n-word
as well I might maybe I have to check
but I have this job that I do it's like
when I arrived here someone said to me
you know don't use the n-word what
people are gonna kick your ass but they
never told me what the n-word was so for
the past six months I have been avoiding
all wars
and the other day a guy came up to me
and said can i fuck your ass smells like
maybe when I say this job is like I have
to set up it's crazy because when I
first did he was like a fucking thing
everybody got uncomfortable yeah but now
I set up as a misunderstanding because
I'm a foreigner yes and now I'm free to
do everything yes yes yeah so I kind of
fire I found the way of yeah so that's
it's crazy and I watch you a lot and I
see a lot of people here I saw the other
guy this guy this guy did an interview
with you and he did this show in a
college and he did a joke and people
took him out of a mesh the mesh Patel
yeah yeah that's crazy because you built
the freedom to do that yes and now
you're discussing if you can or you can
it's only in colleges though children
today and I'm gonna call them children
they do not understand the danger in
suppressing free speech and so they
think that what they're doing is by
suppressing free speech and changing the
way people communicate what they're
doing is making the world a better place
they think they're they're signaling
their virtue and making the world a
better place at the same time but it's
just ignorant so just don't understand
that you can't you you can't necessarily
you can't control people and to think
that by just getting upset and silencing
someone and removing them from the stage
that that ends the conversation it
doesn't it reinforces their position it
says okay look I was right about you
fucking snowflakes and you little babies
like you can't even understand when
things are uncomfortable that it doesn't
necessarily mean it's negative and that
like you're like try to put yourself in
someone's position and see what he's
saying and in the mesh's kids this case
it's actually kind of funny first of all
he's
very open-minded guy very progressive
he's not in any way a racist and his
joke was that people say that being gay
is a choice and he said I know it's not
choice cuz I have a friend who's black
and gay there's no way he would choose
both of those things just him being
funny it's a funny joke and they they
like cut get the fuck off the stage like
what come on man you don't think that's
funny that's crazy I mean and it's also
coming from an Indian man who I'm sure
has experienced racism so the whole
thing is it's very fascinating to see
young kids who are growing up in this PC
culture bubble and you know what
sometimes people say on this podcast
that we talk about it too much and maybe
they're correct maybe sometimes it's
annoying if you're listening cubicle and
you hear me talking too much about this
yeah but it's because it's an issue
that's very dear to my heart because I
understand the dangers of not being able
to communicate freely and I also say
understand what happens when if you
suppress free communication the people
that you're suppressing they're going to
get more and more angry and radical and
it just makes their position that they
feel more justified and then perhaps
even people who are racist could perhaps
be more racist or people who are angry
about gay people will become more angry
about it if you suppress their ability
to express themselves that's when borns
those little movements and neo-nazi
movements little groups and little moves
on the web in the deep web when
discussion it's like when you for when
it's forbidden I think is you can
forgive them the power that they didn't
have I think so and I think this is
something that we're really just getting
to understand now
you know I have had a few conversations
about this recently with the head of
Twitter and with an independent
journalist Tim Poole last week and I
think what people are just starting to
kind of understand even though
everyone's uncomfortable about this is
we're still trying to figure this out
social media is only 10 plus years old
this is an incredibly new experience for
us and I don't think everybody knows
exactly how to proceed and this idea
that you could just ban people and then
just ban people for life if they say
something that makes people
uncomfortable if they say an opinion you
don't agree with ban them for life and
we're experiencing that right now
and we're trying to figure out what to
do and how to how to fix this and how to
mitigate it without endorsing people
harassing people and the dorsum people
you know threatening people and giving
out their address and their phone number
and things along those lines so it's
it's a process that we're all going
through right it is it is a learning
process for the the the whole country
but the thing that annoys annoys me a
little bit is that I I live in another
country and I see how things are
difficult and how much time I spend
explaining people what I was doing and
for you guys it's like I was having the
same problems that Lenny Bruce was had
like the time ago yes and you guys built
that yeah
to have that discussion it's like it is
important because that's the way the
world evolved but at the same time it
feels old it feels old because you
understand the history of it yeah in
America yeah it feels old because you
already have that discussion long time
ago yeah you know you gotta keep having
this conversation when you think that
well you finally feel free to say
whatever you want now there's people
trying to hold you back it's crazy well
it's not really effective see there's
there's people that are angry about I
mean there is on social media there's
certainly people that are being
effective with it but in stand-up comedy
it's the there's blowback and pushback
but it's not very effective like for the
top guys for guys like Dave Chappelle
and you know bill burr it's it actually
makes their standup better because
people are so tired of all this shit
they're so tired of PC culture they're
so tired of being told what they should
and shouldn't think it's funny and what
is acceptable and not acceptable and you
know there's a there's a lot of weird
shit going on right now did you ever
have problem with that oh yeah don't
ever leave your show because of a joke
your deeds oh fuck yeah what was the
subject my god I don't even remember how
many have so many times yeah I mean
people just get angry they get angry and
you're allowed to you mean it's fine
it's look everybody has their own
sensibilities and the problem one of the
problems with stand-up comedy is
if you go to a club to see music you
know what kind of music n' to go see
salsa they have a salsa club you want to
go see jazz you want to go see
rock-and-roll or you want to go to a rap
show you know what you're going to see
but if you go to see comedy you could
see fuckin Barry Manilow followed by
Guns and Roses followed by Run DMC I
mean it's it's it's unless you're going
to see a specific comedian what you're
going to see Jim Gaffigan you don't
necessarily know what the fuck you're
going to see you go to the Comedy Store
on Sunset you're gonna see if you get
there at nine o'clock in state till two
o'clock in the morning you go see 1015
different fucking comedians and they're
all different and you know some of them
are men some of them are women and some
of them are gay and some of them are
black and they all have different points
of view and some of them you're gonna
think of the best some of them you think
oh when is this guy getting off stage I
mean that's just that's just part of it
but for us what's really important about
that is that when I work there I know
that it's not my crowd there are
everyone's crowd see if I go to do a
show if I do a show somewhere and San
Diego say and I advertise it the people
that come they bought a ticket to see
meets York row yes but if I go to the
Comedy Store they might be there to see
Neal Brennan or Chris D'Elia or whoever
but there's to your crowd Joe some of
them are the Comedy Store I steal your
crowd they still this you we went there
to watch you they know who you are if
you go to maybe the middle of Utah they
are not gonna know like ah that's great
usually you'd be surprised yeah wise
guys glass shout out to Salt Lake City
oh yeah I live in Nebraska so I couldn't
imagine someone lived in the brush yeah
that's what I get getting a scholarship
for basketball Jesus Christ Division two
school it was crazy because I had a
chance to meet the American people right
it's not the people who lives in LA or
New York that's different I remember
farmers yeah and I was like hanging
around with black guys because there was
my people that was I was a foreigner we
were minorities and they were playing
basketball with me so I felt it was a
completely different experience
Nebraska was he was it was awesome how'd
you get out
did you walk I actually no I got injured
I got into a fight man and I broke my
joy my cheekbone no way a fight playing
basketball on the court used to fight a
lot of us fuck yeah I didn't I know I'm
not proud of that age but I used to
fight a lot I like to fight but I never
knew how how to do it which is crazy
because you're Brazilian yeah and where
valley to dos started it's where
Brazilian jiu-jitsu started it I always
wall fights but the one that I lost I
broke my cheekbone and my jaw and I had
to do surgery here and the surgery went
bad
oh no because it's praise that's
specific but they don't have a doctor
who does mouth and bones at the same
time they have a neck and mouth doctor
and they have dentist they don't have
the one who does both mm-hmm this is
them doctor at that time I were at that
place right so my surgery went wrong I
had to go back to Brazil and I had to do
the surgery again
oh no and and I decided not to come back
so this is how this is why this moment
for me is very important I never thought
that I had my dream was to play
basketball that's what I was dedicating
my life for and I never thought that I
would have a second chance in America
and this is and that's it that's the my
second chance and I can mess this up so
what made you come from Brazil to
America for stand-up comedy was it all
the lawsuits it was a little bit of the
lawsuits I'm not saying that it was not
but my friend it's like if you wanna
play basketball do you wanna play at the
NBA right if you wanna play soccer
you're gonna go to Barcelona stand-ups
is here man that's the place that you
gotta be and we never had a Brazilian
stand-up comedian in in in here just
like Jay do the ones were born here but
not the ones who actually was like doing
stand-up in Brazil coming here I think
was important for me for all my
colleagues and all my all the comedians
Brazil as well to start something here
it has been a very good experience a
little hard yeah but he has been a lot
of a lot of fun as well now are you
working over here did you save up money
and you live it off your money faces we
have my comedy club there I saved and I
saved some I got some money yeah yeah I
lost some of those losses kept some Joe
fuck but I'm saying you're not working
here necessarily I'm just like going and
doing stand-up I'm focusing on stand-up
I have my agent and I have manager
everything is happening last year I did
jfl I'm Hannah like I'm headlining some
clubs right now because in those places
that has like a huge Brazilian community
okay I'm doing in English but I'm throw
a little Portuguese in there with ya
yeah so that's that's Noom and it's I
did everything that I wanted to do in
Brazil I did a talk show I did movies I
did in my own series I directed a movie
directed a series and I thought was like
I'm 42 it's time for me to try something
new so that's why I came here and I miss
my son that's that's the bad part okay
yeah we were talking about that before
that is a that's a crazy situation yeah
my kids there and last time that I was
leaving and he was like if I'm the most
important in your life why are you
searching for something so far away mmm
and I thought yet I told him this is
important this is very important for me
but it is selfish yeah this is something
that I wanted to do and and for my
career was important because I didn't I
don't I lost a lot in my country as well
with the lawsuits and a lost TV shows I
lost a lot I lost money I thought was a
little dangerous for me to keep doing it
over there and I got a death trap there
was like that made me a little then I
and I didn't actually went public to
talk about the death threat
and I was the death threat it was
because one of my lawsuits I cannot be
that specific because it wasn't open so
if I say as a coroner who he was
I will be sued again right because you
know yeah
Sood okay now I'll be offending
someone's honor because I but I knew
what happened and I felt I I didn't feel
safe that for a little bit
mmm I'm not saying that a runaway but I
did seem smart to come over yeah
and spend some time and build something
and and maybe be here it was it was hard
for me that I could get hurt because of
the nature of my job now when you're
over here and you're trying to do
stand-up dr you do you structure your
act out do you have like how do you do
it do you write it out on paper on a
computer do you put it up on a this
thing over you put it on your phone
write everything over here and then I
keep rehearsing and I go on stage and I
have to toe and I say it that's what I
do I memorize everything that I'm gonna
say not everything but it gets natural
it's the way you do it yeah I just
memorize everything that I'm gonna write
because if I mess up a word or two I can
kill a joke and I want everything to
work flawlessly so that's why I memorize
it looks natural but I memorize
everything but it's very hard for me to
interact with the audience
mm-hmm because every time there's
someone like I called me all joke all
jokes comes in Portuguese on my head and
I have to translate right at the time
and I lose time is very frustrating oh
yeah like collagen and I even say this
on stage like I was doing a show the
other day in this guy just scream you
suck it was like a bad shows a marshal
and what I say to would I want it when I
am stressed out I just mess up words and
they always happen and heels I you say I
wanted to say go fuck yourself and I say
gonna fuck myself it's very hard to
interact with the awesome whose tiny man
is ethical yeah do it in another
language it's not my natural thing so
everything is on your phone yeah you
don't write it on the computer or
notebook do you write yeah yeah yeah I
write in a computer because I can write
and it's easier to type you know like
its first of all it's bigger right
you're looking at a big 15-inch screen
and I can type without looking at my
fingers
okay and so when I have ideas I can get
them out really quick and I don't have
to say them okay I just look at it on
the screen and then I'll write many
versions of it and then I go over it
chuckles weed and then start editing
twisting it around the best and the
first version dude that's the first
version what I basically do is I get it
to a point where I know that I have
something to talk about and know I have
a framework and I know where there's
some punchlines and then I write it out
on paper so that when I write it out on
paper I can see it better in my head I
remember it better then I bring it to
the stage but I don't have a rigid
structure I'm loose with it because I
want to be able to feel it in the moment
whether or not this is good perfect you
know so when I go on stage I was like
say if I'm doing a joke about a coffee
okay whatever I'll go you know I drink
too much fucking coffee I got a real
problem and here's how I know I have a
problem and then I'll go into it and
then I'll start talking about all the
different errors and then I'll listen to
the recording and I'll go oh that part's
luck so I got to fix this part and this
part stupid and this part is sloppy but
that part got a laugh okay but you know
what it'd be even funnier if I set it
clear like maybe I need to say it this
way you know and and then I'll just and
then it's this constant process of
writing writing it out going onstage
recording all sets listening to the
recording and then writing again do you
when you listen to those sets do you
keep the funny ones or is there some
time they should do like a funny joke
but you don't like it does that happen
sometimes yeah yeah yeah I don't it's
it's it's few cheap cheap cheap yeah
yeah yeah he was funny like you got a
laugh but it's not good yeah that's sure
yeah absolutely yeah you got to be
careful that you don't you don't want to
be a hack you know that's what that's a
hack is someone who tells like obvious
stupid jokes that only make dumb people
laugh okay or someone who does tired
beaten-down material like the jokes that
you know that other people have done
already you know you know that you just
would know based on your okay like
here's a perfect example it's Stephen
Fry do you know Stephen Fry yes this is
famous
he used this recently he said something
about I would I would love to come back
to life as a drug sniffing dog you know
could you imagine being a drug sniffing
dog at the airport just smelling
everything
no no getting high like he was saying
about how that is such an obvious stupid
joke and so many people have done that
and that's a joke where man I bet
probably hundreds of comedians that
don't joke about that it's just like an
obvious premise and you know like you
were saying earlier that sometimes
people would say jokes that you've said
and you you have a hard time explaining
that's my joke and to them it's just an
anecdote or then it's just something
funny that they heard sometimes people
go on stage and their act consists of
really obvious premises that they have
probably already heard someone covered
before that's a hack yeah that's why
it's difficult there's a huge challenge
for me because I have been doing for 17
years but in another country so you guys
you guys there's a huge road that you
guys already followed so if you hear
something out that's old maybe for me
it's not right you know I wanna be that
guy right and I don't in what I realized
that people don't point that out to you
well you could ask people yeah yeah if
you're friends with comics like okay you
get ass okay and they'll tell you yeah
yeah that's why like the other day this
guy was doing a joke and I kind of
thought about a tag line the tag line
yeah and he got uncomfortable for me
like telling he all what about this it
was like it will it's difficult man to
connect with comedians it's not that
easy
they all have huge problems they all
have one I was like in a group of guys
one was like ex-drug addict the other
ones was a drunk and they do have like
huge problems and I was like I have
friends it was bigger yeah you gotta be
like oh you got a deep and you've gotta
fucking go into the bottom to search for
something good and I understand this
process but at the same time do I really
have
to go through all that now we found
something great no you don't thought you
just gives what ideas and yes Chris
D'Elia actually has a bit about that I
don't want to do his bit but it's
basically a bit about how good his
childhood was and how close he is with
his family and everybody thinks that you
have to have a fucked-up childhood to be
it's not true you just have to be funny
people are funny for different reasons
some people are funny because they
always enjoy stand-up I mean if you if
you grow up enjoying stand-up comedy and
then become a stand-up comedian there's
nothing wrong with that you don't have
to be a drug addict do you and I'm not
gonna be because I I tried marijuana
yeah we did yeah once two years ago and
I stayed hide for 14 days
Sarah god man did you eat it 14 days no
no it's smoked it wasn't a vaporizer is
that yeah vaporized vaporizer yeah yeah
and I say hi for 14 days but I thought
it was like disconnected for reality
well sometimes that does happen and I
know a story about a guy who is a
straight-laced guy who took some
marijuana edibles so that he could get
to sleep and he had a real problem like
he got suicidal and freaked out and
became just irrationally anxious he had
crippling anxiety for some time for some
time for weeks and he's a confident guy
and a very handsome big muscular guy
like just like you would never imagine
this guy have any anxiety I think some
people have just the the chemistry of
different individuals I wasn't bar for
that and that's what the doctor told me
because I went to the psychiatrist I
swear to god I'm that week that week
with the psychiatrist man and I sold him
me know I smoked that thing like 14 days
ago and I still high and he looked at me
and he gave me some some psycho one he
gave me some pills and I was like if you
stay high into tomorrow take those pills
because what he told me is something
that I didn't know that he can
be a trigger if you're has some
tendencies of schizophrenia and a
psychopath or if you have which was not
my case in his toe this is very rare but
he can't happen which is not your case
and I was happy because he said yeah and
the next day I was okay and I felt okay
[Music]
and I remember that I decided to record
I was like let me let me record what I'm
thinking at least let's get some good
experience out of it and I remember that
I started to record and I said now I'm
going to record everything that I'm
thinking and when I looked at the cell
phone it was 45 minutes 45 minutes of
talking and I didn't realize I just said
that I'm gonna record now and there was
45 minutes and when I listened like for
15 days after that I was like I'm so
crazy I'm so crazy I'm never gonna
understand on my son's talking talking
to me right now
Wow one hit of a person no it was more
than one a bunch of him he was a bunch
yeah oh you're too tall you're big
you're like 250 pounds so fucking use it
a lot also they were saying keep hitting
it because you're tall because I wasn't
feeling it
oh no when I felt it I felt for 40
people that's one of the big problems
with people when they first tries they
try too much yeah someone just says take
another hit this is a rapper man I tell
people view thinking about trying
marijuana go I did a little bit that's
it yeah I don't feel anything shut the
fuck up leave it alone it'll you'll
eventually feel something something yeah
leave it alone wow that's crazy man if
there's so many people selling weeds and
stuff and this it's not even cool
anymore weeds not cool it's like people
are so poor when I do shows there's a
lot of people talk about I smoked this
and I smoked that it's like man it's
legal now yeah this is like juice it's
not dangerous yeah I think it's good he
has to be there yeah well it definitely
should be it doesn't affect me that way
for me I've been smoking in a long time
it's pretty easy okay I just it chills
me out makes me it actually makes me
nicer makes me like a more calm person
it does that makes mom
more sensitive to other people's
feelings did you ever smoke because you
felt that you're nervous or like stress
the house and no I'm gonna treat I'm not
gonna perform well in this meeting or
something you're smoking no it doesn't
work like that from me like if I'm
stressed out and I work out I'm stressed
out that's that's my best for
alleviating that marijuana is good for
me for thinking for contemplating and
going over things and it's not it's not
good for me for stress like for straight
what if I feel like tense tension I
workout that's that's what gets it out
of me I always wanted to ask you one
thing
hmm it's completely different when
you're doing interviews at the end of
fights mmm did you ever feel threatened
somehow know what at least once thanks
no no no I one thing that I hope the
fighters realize is that what I'm trying
to do is only get them to express
themselves mm-hmm I want them to shine I
really genuinely want them they won this
big fight I want I want them to express
themselves I want them to maybe maximize
their marketing perfect their
marketability and just like tell the
world how they feel like that's a
incredibly unusual experience to win a
big fight in the cage on pay-per-view in
front of millions of people
my goal is only to try to get them to
communicate better and to let them know
that I'm there to support them that's
all I'm ever trying to do for it you
know yeah like I was saying before
before we started talking to I have a
lot of friends in MMA mm-hmm sweetest
guys as people yeah consider what they
do for a living crazy so crazy yeah
damn young from the lay ninja Shogun
their house ninja doing these days man
last time I talked to him he got some he
got some I don't know if he was because
of the fighting yeah I cannot say that
but his speech it's a little slow yeah
it is already hard to understand even
Shogun they have this what they call the
hoenn ace which is the way of speaking
they come from this state which is very
hard to understand what they say from
QWERTY yeah
Concord Chiba and people we don't forget
chip sometimes when they speak to too
fast you don't understand that much but
a ninja I think he got some some
injuries and subscribes in his head I
think he got some surgeries yeah I think
he had surgery and he was fine at the
time people are kicking people in soccer
kids soccer yeah bro and he was one of
the best he was good yeah he was an
animal he was really young to an idea
and he was like getting knocked out with
slaps yeah that's the scariest thing is
when you see the chin go oh when their
ability to take apart what's crazy a
Shogun seems to be making a resurgence
it's crazy he amazing he I I used to be
very good friends with one of his
coaches and after the fight with
Henderson the first one which was like a
great fuss that was the chaos and I was
talking to him he was like you don't
even imagine how talented this guy is
but he kind of focused if he was focused
he would kick his ass in like fucking
two minutes so he just that's the way
they do it and Xiu Qi box they like to
fight they like to fucking just go at it
yeah p.m. and Cyborg and fun delay and
same thing but the way they do it's just
like let's go to war yeah and sometimes
the game changed yeah and but Shogun is
like learning you can see that he's like
improving still improving and like I
think it's like 36 34 his last fight he
looked sensational I mean he looked like
a fucking killer he can take a shot
again now it's weird it's like I mean he
got knocked out by a few different guys
and he's lost some fights some tough
fights but his last fight he looked as
good as he's looked in years it's it's
sad for me when I see like I don't know
he's always with Brazilians but when I
see like an old an old fighter getting
his ass kicked too quick yeah I remember
his fight with Sun and that was that was
yeah well he got Carnegie he got caught
in a guillotine but his fast he the guy
trained for like six months and that's
very frustrating remember when Royce he
went back to fight with huge stands like
yeah
well Matt Hughes was in his prime then
you know and he was so strong and hoist
just wasn't he wasn't physically capable
do it right he didn't look the same you
know he just didn't look like he was
physically capable the same way in and
you know Matt he was his fucking
talented unbelievably talented when he
when he got on top of who he was
smashing I was like oh yeah that's hard
to watch it's not a wash yeah but that's
the life I mean that is the life they
chose you know when Chuck Liddell just
got knocked out by Tito Ortiz if that
was hard to watch cuz you could tell he
just can't take a punch and I wasn't
that fight that way in there to watch it
it was it was bad it was I wasn't moving
right the thing about when fighters take
a lot of knockout losses one of the
things it's very becomes apparent is
their balance looks off and their
movement doesn't look the same like
their neurology they don't the body
doesn't move yeah he can look the same
but they'll react the same right right I
mean even Anderson when he lost a style
bender I think style bender would have
been a tough fight for him at any point
in his career because style bender is
just fantastic super technical but
Anderson looked like he was a step
behind the Anderson of old like the
Anderson that knocked out Vitor and the
Anderson that you know you go back to
the early days Anderson that knocked out
Chael Sonnen and that Anderson was a
fucking he was just an assassin yeah he
was so good he just knew what to do and
when to do it and when the style bender
fight he just looked like he was a
little off little office but he's also
46 you know he's I think he's 1 1 year
older than 43 he's only 40 yeah we did
we did we did a show together we do a
show this show on that was called the
ultimate beast master which is a
Brazilian Netflix know is here as well
Terry Crews did an American we did we do
like all hosts from different countries
and we meet and it's like American Ninja
Warrior for Netflix ok and we have like
hosts from different countries and we
have two Brazilians and Italians and the
French guys and and I didn't show it
and they're so he's a sweet guy he's
great it's a great guy he's a great guy
I mean he's one of the all-time greats I
mean
I had the honor of calling a lot of his
fights and it's crazy because yeah and
it's crazy when you're talking about the
god the guy is getting older I remember
I talked with Minotauro it was like
three or four I was like two to two
fights after he actually retired and I
asked him why why you keep doing it you
don't have to do you know right you
don't have to prove anything to me know
what and when he said of me I think was
so fair he was like I fought when this
thing wasn't giving me any money right
so just give let me lose the fight or
two and get some money at the end of my
career because I deserve that
right he wasn't like of course he was
going there to win but it's like I wanna
take the risk
yeah because I was fighting in Japan
getting I don't know five thousand
dollars and now that the game it's like
bringing you so much money I'm gonna
retire let me just do a couple more well
Minotauro not not only was he a pioneer
and one of the great MMA heavyweights of
all time but he's so important for MMA
because he showed that heavyweights can
fight off their back and that
heavyweights could win by triangle like
when he triangled Mark Coleman and was
tapping guys with arm bars when he beat
Bob Sapp Bob Sapp was fuckin crazy
that's what that is one of the greatest
MMA fights in the history of the sport
375 pound Bob Sapp Minotaur only
probably weighed 230 and he wound up
happening with an armbar it was fuckin
critten after he gets spiked on his head
which still apparently fucks with him
Tuesday his neck was fucked up Herman
because of that yes I didn't know that
375 pound guy who doesn't even look like
a human he looked like a like a comic
book yeah he smashes him on his head and
Minotauro recovered and I mean he was
one of the toughest guys of all - yeah
but she was run by a truck when he
wasn't that's that scar and it's run by
a crazy yeah that's crazy
I mean he's he's one of the most
important figures in the history of the
sport and then I think Fabrizio took it
to another level because Fabricio Werdum
probably has the best guard in the
history of the sport its history the
heavyweight division I mean when he
caught phaidor when he had him in his
triangle and he had him locked up like
that you don't get away with that guy
like you might get out of some people's
guard not Fabricio that motherfucker
locks people up yeah yeah and I gotta
thank him I'm here just because of yeah
well my respect for him you know when he
reached out to me he was like okay I'll
get your friend on thank you and he is a
great guy and that's what I well that
that's why I asked you if if you kind of
feel threatened because when people get
there in the fight yeah you don't know
what's gonna happen right and when you
go over there to talk with one you can
say a wrong thing at the wrong why don't
know maybe on that you can make mistakes
you should stay so my intention is
always to just to make them look good
that's all I'm trying to I'm trying to
do is just get them to express
themselves and and and and also put some
emotion to how great their performance
was yeah but it's a weird job you know
to also be a comedian you know it's a
strange combination mination
yeah do they go watch you sometimes
sometimes yeah yeah that's good that's
very good and for me now it's like I'm
here to try this comedy thing and so
you're getting up in Los Angeles and are
you traveling anywhere yeah yeah I have
a gig on Rhode Island Rhode Island these
people yeah I have a gig dad I did the
Gotham comedy club last last two weeks
ago I have lined the club so it's time
to get a lot of Brazilians that come to
see yeah they want you to speak
Portuguese they do and some of them
don't speak English really there's like
always like two or three at dinner shows
in Portuguese but they're so good to see
you so that happened but it's it's hard
me because I have to build an audience
yeah here yeah and it's gonna take some
time do you do a podcast I don't you
should
sure yeah definitely definitely it's a
good I think every comedian like every
comedian has a Instagram page but every
comedian officer should have a podcast
it's very simple to do it's not
something that we do that much in Brazil
so maybe you could be the Pioneer that
appear on the podcast
you're a pioneer for standup YouTube is
something huge in Brazil well that's a
great way to start because with all you
need is a webcam and you can start your
podcast just on you too easy I do my I
have my my channel YouTube got like 2
million subscribers really that's like
on Twitter I have 12 million people
following this a lot man that's a lot 12
million people following me my Brazilian
Instagram I got like 1.5 million people
people people are very active in social
media in Brazil it it's something that
is from our nature to connect with
people in Brazil so that's why social
media got huge and it was it was like an
alternative for the traditional media
what is this the most influential person
I look at you motherfucker
New York Times
he's crazy New York Times Magazine
saying you're the most influential
person on Twitter that's incredible now
what were they saying you're the most
influential what were you doing that was
influencing people I have no idea I was
surprised when they I woke up and I was
story on the New York Times saying that
I was the most influential profile
Twitter and in the second place the
Dalai Lama Dalai Lama
[Laughter]
I was the first one so these they did
like a huge story about me Wow
incredible he was man Twitter was
something huge in Brazil what is the
difference between the way people use
Twitter in Brazil in America is there a
difference no for for me I just used
Twitter for jokes that's what I did for
quite some time
it was Twitter lost a lot of his
strength in Brazil because people like
to connect Facebook is huge and
Instagram is huge so you have your
family over there you have you have have
everything you have you have your people
but you feel talking you should just
like Twitter feels like you're screaming
and someone is gonna listen well it's
not like on Facebook that people yeah
follows you and then if he likes you
your post is gonna be like in the in the
top of this page but it is just
something that is there some right it
lost a lot of power in Brazil but one
thing that is happening right now is our
new president and we have a new
president now that is a right-wing guy
who was just elected and he got stabbed
he was like when did he get stabbed it
was like two months ago during the
process of the election holy shit that's
happenin in a gut yeah did you see that
yeah and he's like a very wide range he
won the election and he's trying to do
with Twitter with Trump did well he's
doing him here like run instead of going
to press conferences and and everything
he's just going through there and say
what he wants Wow yeah Twitter is unique
in the way people just use it to insult
people and so angry it's so angry like
if you just only if you didn't know
anything about people and you just
looked on Twitter and just like saw how
you like what people must be fighting in
the streets it must be just a bloodbath
out there if you really thought that
people interacted in the real world the
way they do on Twitter you would think
that everywhere is just weapons and
clubs running people over with cars
which everyone dies but I think man
there's a difference and I think we have
to knowledge that there's a difference
between your behavior on the web and
outside of the law for sure and
sometimes you don't realize that yeah oh
the world is boring everybody is
sensitive and everything else if you go
outside it's not that much it's the same
this is same it was always it's a
distorted lens that you could see humans
through it's not how people really are
and it's also it's not a healthy way to
communicate because you don't worry
about what the person thinks about what
you're saying you're saying things that
you don't necessarily even really mean
because you're trying to be inflammatory
you know to get some attention yeah I
mean that's a lot of it a lot of is just
screaming screaming for attention and
insulting people I mean and then you
look at people's pages that's the most
disturbing thing to me someone say
something shitty to me I'll go to their
page and I see they're just saying
shitty things all day long like kind of
life is this man some fucking terrible
life what I'm doing right
I have this series that I do on
Instagram where I just I get like the
guy cursing me or saying some shit about
me and I just show his face and it's
enough and it's funny because it's it's
funny to see who is actuates me right
then I call these the people who hates
me and then I put what he wrote and then
only his face right its thumbnail it's
enough for you to see how that's fucking
you don't have to take things too
serious because if you take a look of
their lives its you can see why they are
so mad yeah there's there's a lot of
that a lot of anger and though most of
them have private accounts like you
can't look at their pictures they're
hiding yeah they're hiding who they are
they just talk shit in the comments I
shouldn't bro
yeah it's weak shit just ash it's giving
people a chance to like throw blind
shots that's crazy I think that the be
anonymous on the web it's a good is a
good thing because it allows you to be
free at the same time yeah it's good for
whistleblowers for people like reporting
crimes reporting corruption scores
report you know like that for that it's
critical that is that is a there's a way
to do it and don't expose yourself yeah
but at the same time it creates that but
it's you know it's the sign of the new
era bro it's just a new thing that we
all have to navigate it's just a new
thing and it's like we were talking
about earlier with social media being so
recent in human history there's never
been anything where you could just talk
to the whole world and do it from your
phone while you're sitting at a red
light you could say something there's a
story about this woman was the name
justine sacco without the woman's name
who said something racist i went to a
plane yes I said she said I'm going to
Africa hope I don't get AIDS
just kidding I'm white lol so she was
fucked up on ambien and she was or xanax
or ambien I forget what it was she was
she was on some sort of psych medication
and something that affects your brain
and drank to she had a couple of drinks
just thought she was being funny and
then wakes up sixteen hours later in
Africa and her life is over that's crazy
and it was just one of those
days where there was like a slow news
cycle and people just jumped on that
tweet and the thing about it too is that
they don't want you to recover from
something like that and they want that's
that's you've at rest of your life
that's what I felt
yeah that's what I felt I'm the baby
fucker yeah yeah so everything that I
say right now is like wasn't you like
fucking babies and I fuck the baby I
don't think they're attractive I don't
fact it at all do you foresee a time
ever where you will go back to Brazil no
I do I do go back to what I mean go back
to do stand-up I I don't see them and
the challenge is here and the freedom
that I think I have here and maybe I
don't maybe I will face this this this
whole thing the same thing when I get
famous or when I when it's when I get no
no you want it's way easier here from
what you're explaining to me but look at
little Louie or Louise a different case
because it's not what he said on Snitch
and you know I mean it's a he got caught
up in the wave of the me to movement to
where as if this same exact instance
happened in the past it's not the same
thing it wasn't that comparison but I
got like Daniel Tosh did a rape joke and
then I was gone that was over in like
like that and you know it would happen
there with a joke no he was like
improvising with the audience yes he was
improvising with the audience here's the
deal he was at the Laugh Factory he
wasn't supposed to be there dom i rera
who is his friend said hey why don't you
go up and do some standard because I
don't have any materials just go up and
fuck around just they'll be happy to see
you guys okay so he goes on stage he's I
don't have any material so what do you
guys want to talk about some guy yells
out rape and he goes what what what's
funny about like he's like making fun of
the guy like what are you talking about
what's funny about rape he's like
there's nothing he goes like what's
funny about rape the humiliation the
violence and some woman yells out
actually there's nothing funny about
rape so he goes wouldn't be funny five
guys are great so he's just the end of
Daniel Tosh so it probably would have
been just one of those moments in a live
crowd
with drunk people but she wrote a blog
about yeah where she was the victim
she was this huge blog about him calling
for her to get raped which is not
exactly what he did is it's in the
context of being heckled do you
understand what it is and he kind of had
to have some sort of an apology for it
but then all these other people jumped
in and then it became a moment where
people could show that they don't
support rape and where they don't
support what we call rape culture they
use you as a plataform yes yes that's
what happened and that's what happened
with me as well people don't want allies
context anymore
exactly and we are very we are available
we are we as comedians we are talking we
are ourselves we are not playing a
character so if you take if I take your
jokes Joe out of context from your
specialness yes I can get some some
clicks oh yeah for sure
if I want but I think people are getting
tired of it and now they understand the
process yes but what I felt was the
beginning of that mm-hmm especially in
your country yeah where you don't have a
long history of stand-up yeah so that's
why I lost money and that's why I lost a
lot of money
you're the motherfucking Lenny Bruce of
Brazil yeah man you know someone who
gave me the back credit in the future
but no now you want to be now Rafi in
America no no not only that but that's
why what people say to me and what I
felt was that there I was a lot of
people said I was using this freedom of
speech argument to offend people right
will you hear that in America too and
which was not the case but there is a
matter of freedom of speech yeah
because we had a law yeah in Brazil a
long time ago where people are like
trying to regulate comments on the web
oh if I feel offended I can ask someone
to delete that so the Gov the government
was trying to regulate that yeah and and
the law was approved
well like after it wasn't approved but
the law was like changing after the
voting but when it becomes at the end
the government was
when it was getting the time of the
voting the governor was like okay what
about if I takes some tweets as well
that offend me so the government tried
to get into the weight of things so it
is a matter of fairness which when this
is gonna end it becomes with the joke
but maybe can end with the government
shutting you up yes I have a friend in
Venezuela a comedian friend his name is
nacho he was he was kicked out of the
country because some jokes he did whoa
he can't go back he's living in Miami
right now because if he goes back to
Venezuela right now the government's
gonna put him in jail or maybe kill him
I don't know Wow what was his jokes
about yeah I don't know well his joke
was about but he was making fun of the
government but then like one year after
that he makes some jokes about people
with Down syndrome and then the
government felt that he hear the when he
has to go to jail because of the Down
syndrome joke they were using that thing
to take him out of the streets so it's
dangerous out there man it's not that
easy to do comedy outside of America you
built that freedom yeah you hear about
it all the time people in other
countries that say jokes and they get in
trouble like there was something in
Thailand there was something someone
made a joke about the king and they
locked him in jail and it's it's very
dangerous where it's very dangerous very
dangerous to speak out against the
government yeah we're really really
fortunate here so like for you when you
see Americans complaining about freedom
of speech over here not not being able
to say whatever you want it's kind of a
joke that's exactly what I feel it's
just like if you want to be an asshole
just deal with the consequences
oh yes that's what I feel I'm an asshole
right but when someone stopped me on the
street say you're a piece of shit I was
like yeah right but that's okay
let's end there I am a piece of shit and
that's what has to end you know
yeah don't take it personal that's what
I feel that is is difficult to do comedy
out there and here you have this freedom
of doing it and I think is is beautiful
it's beautiful something
guys built do you think that it's going
to change in Brazil and then maybe the
the stand-up comedy could actually see
cuz one of the things that happened in
America is that Lenny Bruce because he
didn't just tell jokes he actually
talked about social issues on stage it
actually expanded people's ideas of what
these social issues are and and how
critical they are it changed culture in
a lot of ways and jokes one of the
things about stand-up comedy that does
help to change cultures say if you have
an opinion and I have an opinion if your
opinion is different than mine you say
something I'm like well I don't agree
with that I think this but if you say
something and you make me laugh
even if I don't agree with it it sneaks
in my head like you have a point if your
point is so good that it makes me laugh
even if I don't agree with it like god
damn it he got it he got in there so you
can propagate ideas yeah inside
someone's consciousness you can you
could sneak them in we have a few people
doing it in Brazil some only I used to
have this TV show called CQC and we used
to do comedy in Congress we used to go
and interview congressmen and make fun
of them and we got a kicked out of the
Congress and we again then people
brought me brought us back to the
Congress but all you all reach the point
when it's about money and if the and if
someone is not willing to put money in
your product you don't do it and money
is connected to politics and politics
and brands and the TV stations for you
to have a TV station in Brazil you need
authorization by the government so
you're not that completely free to do
what you want to do it but but you have
some people doing it and comedy is
getting is getting big stand-up is
getting huge in Brazil you disconnected
to YouTube I have a lot of big comedians
doing like huge theatres I used to do
like 5060 eaters in Brazil so it's it's
becoming it's becoming an option Wow
5,000 yeah theaters yeah Wow do it man
you do it yeah Wow
she's - like 10,000 - but what I'm
saying is it's crazy that you started
out
doing like a sadomasochistic that's
pretty amazing that's what I built with
some friends and I feel that I'm proud
of that to open this this this
discussion and this chance because I
have a lot of people doing it right now
getting money out of it my comedy club
we pay well comedians every time they go
on stage like here they get like 10
bucks yeah but it's ok we consider that
as a business over there and that's that
serious and this is awesome that's
fantastic that's so cool you started
that I mean that's got to be really a
good feeling to know that all these
people that are doing it now that are
professional comedians like you you took
the first steps yeah yeah I feel proud
man that was a lot of people that throw
that I probably have all of them
watching this right now
I don't know anyone who has ever done it
in one language and then made it over in
America afterwards I'm trying to think I
can't think of any I don't think anybody
in English oh yeah I don't I can't think
of anybody that started out in another
country and then made it in America what
is the name of the Russian guy they
always do the cool doing the communist
thought they used to say Yakov Smirnoff
yeah yeah great guy he I think he is
Russian yes
he's Russian but I think he's been over
here most of his life uh I don't think
he started in Russia I think his whole I
didn't deny they say yeah his whole
thing yes so he was doing like a
character no no no he speaks I mean he
definitely speaks Russian okay and he
definitely is from Russia but he
definitely plays it up too and he you
know he's been over here forever he has
his own theater in what is that place
where those old folks live Branson
Branson Missouri yeah it's like one of
those weird like super religious places
yeah yeah like they it's a strange area
just very strange like like you talk to
people about it and Branson Missouri
people go you're like it's it's not a
place where like Dave Chappelle goes to
play do you go through those plays no I
do not there's only so many places I go
I don't have any time to I don't want to
you know I'm not trying to run uphill
No yeah you don't get it that's alright
I'll go to Chicago okay yeah yeah this
is just I don't have time but now what I
like concentrate on now I mean the
grounds already been broken right I'm
not breaking any new ground all I'm
trying to do is write good stuff
write good material do good work and I'm
just trying to make people happy I'm
trying to make them laugh that's all I'm
trying to do I just try to when they go
and they get a babysitter and they come
to a comedy club I want to do my best
that's all I want to do so that's all I
think about do you see a lot of like
movie offers and anymore I tried it a
little bit it's just not my thing okay
it just takes time it's not necessary
and all my friends that do it you know I
got my friend Brian just called me from
a movie set the other day goes he goes
you're so right fuck this because I'm
sitting in my trailer for 16 hours he's
like a fucking hate this shit I don't
want to do this I just got another offer
for another movie that's not that good
and I don't want to do that either you
know you could you could do a movie and
put so much effort and time and do it no
one will see it like maybe it'll be
opposite some fucking big Avengers movie
and nobody goes to see your movie and
it's out of the movie theater and yeah I
spend so much no one cares no one the
thing about movies - that's interesting
is there's so many of them it's not like
you're ever gonna see all the movies
there's so many movies in every week
there's new movies if you really stop
and think about how fucking insane that
is there must be thousands and thousands
and thousands of movies you can't
possibly see them all like if you just
want to be entertained like you could
see movies to the end of time you could
just sit in front of your fucking
Netflix and just till your eyes fall out
of your head watching movies it's crazy
it's almost no need to make more movies
we're good in this crazy
yeah and it's busy because movies are
getting bigger and bigger and bigger
because they have to bring you something
that takes you out of your house yes
yeah people don't go to the movie to
watch Adam Sandler anymore you want a
fucking superhero kicking your face and
coming in your neck yeah they was
fucking huge stuff yeah there's that but
then people do need comedies like Kevin
Hart movies they still sell really well
like people still want to see something
funny you know that's
people still need it's one of the things
about stand-up and one of the things
about funny movies too is that people
need a break from the grind of life life
is a horrible grind you know it's
fucking hard man it's hard to pay your
bills and get up every morning to a job
you don't want to get up to and maybe
you're not even into being married
anymore and you got to fucking stretch
through that because maybe you have a
children and you decide that it's better
to stay for your children and you're
fucking living in hell and your
neighbors a cunt and the dog won't stop
barking and and then you just need
something just something give me
something give me something funny my
friend that's why I'm so optimistic in
life is that what what a chance I have
of pursuing my dream yeah and doing
comedy making people laugh and having
fun and don't have to sit in a fucking
fucking share for eight hours a day and
then with a job that I don't like
because if you like to be an accountant
that's okay yeah be happy being an
accountant sure but he was never for me
yeah he was never for me you know it was
never for me either or any comedian that
I know everyone that I know was like
doing something and living in hell until
they decided to be a comedian or the
thought of doing something else but you
know that's that's the path of life
right the path of life is for some
people what we do would be hell you know
for some people that are introverts or
that they don't like attention and they
they don't like public speaking and they
don't they're not necessarily funny what
we do is hell they if you're wearing a
funny person you don't know how to make
people laugh and you have to go onstage
and make people laugh every night that's
your job like I'm and you have to try
hard or there's some sort of pain
involved fuck that be hell see that was
that wasn't me the last few shows that I
did in boroughs ooh I felt I felt heavy
heavy if everyone's watching you yeah I
fell I fell that the energy I still have
very lawyer artists and I'm law they
love me and I love them we still have
that connection but I felt exposed not
exposed and that's when you this is
after the baby fuck Joe yeah if after me
becoming a baby fucker
but at the time that was funny right
when you said it many laughs they laugh
a lot
yeah that was not the case my friend if
you take this joke out of context yeah
and put it in a newspaper even me when I
read that I was like this guy is fucking
smashed up the rape joke that I did when
I read on a newspaper my rape joke man
do you really want me to go to and he
was bad he was something like I was
watching TV and I don't I'm not proud of
that okay but I was watching TV this
woman and she was saying that she was
raped and it was bad it was a very bad
experience you she was crying but the
camera wasn't showing her face he was
just showing her mouth and she has a
huge mustache like a huge mustache like
fucking a lot of hair and I made this
joke about this guy he was it this was
this was the kind of a gift because she
didn't she wouldn't have another
opportunity or something but I did once
I was just testing the joke right I was
doing at 1 o'clock at night in my comedy
club it was like 20 people in the
audience so you're just fucking around I
was just fucking around well it was what
I saw on TV and so they were waiting for
you to do something like that and it was
like this journalist was was there and
he was doing a story for the Rolling
Stone oh and I was doing yeah we were
sorry about me and then the cover and it
wasn't in the cover but the picture on
the whole new stone was me dressed as
Jesus like bleeding with a crown in my
head and there was the in the in the
text was this rape joke it was a rape
joke I didn't even write the thing I was
just like talking with the audience
right but when - that was taken out of
context it was hard for me to explain it
I'm ok this is was me fucking around
with like 20 people but the people
couldn't see the difference between me
doing and it wasn't a good joke at all
it's not as something that I'm proud of
but when you're on stage and you're
testing sometimes just shit comes up
right and I was testing boundaries as
well I think was my duty to test some
stuff yeah
there's things that you say where you're
not thinking them out because you're
ad-libbing
in the moment they come out even you
disagree with them as you're saying
horse but this is part of the process of
creating material especially if there's
20 people in the crowd it's late at
night like you do things just to see you
go down doors you open doors if you
don't know what's in there and sometimes
you'll say something and then you'll
have the fucking perfect line and it
comes out of nowhere and the only way
you find out is if you take a chance to
win it yeah that's why I think it's so
fair and I was having a discussion with
two great big comedians about the Louie
set that he did like instantly yeah and
I think he already talked about this but
the guy was testing stuff yeah so how
can you judge if the work is not done
it's not even close done he probably
maybe it did that bit once before if
that you know and the judgement was like
oh he has to address what happened with
him I'm pretty sure he will but not on
that set maybe he didn't address on that
said that's not his special right when
he has a special that's when he framed
the thing okay that's my work yeah but
if he's just testing stuff you cannot
judge by that but the problem is now
everybody wants to judge everything he
does and they want to find him and watch
him and so now he has to institute this
cell phone policy that all the comedy
clubs he works out what you have to take
your phone and put it in a bag so that
no one can get ahold of it it's just
it's a real problem he's got a real
problem and it's also a real problem for
creating comedy because if people don't
understand that that's this is what
comedy is about that comedy is about
improvisation and then boiling it down
to what's good and then figuring out
what's the best way to express an idea
because sometimes you have an idea and
you know there's something there but you
don't know how to say it so you just
take a chance on one way and then you go
offensive that's disgusting but there's
got to be a way to do it when they find
a better way yeah of course yeah there's
many bits that I did like not my last
special but the special before where
when I first started them they were not
doing well at all they were not doing
well at all I had to figure out a way to
make them funny why did he was ceased on
them because I knew there was something
there was I noticed something there like
for instance I have this one
bit on women and inventions and that
women don't invent a lot of things and
it took a long time for me to figure out
how to do that and the best way to do
that was to talk about all the great
things about women first so I just had I
had to talk about you know like the
concept that women are supposed to work
that we should that women are supposed
to work as well as raise children which
is fucking crazy because raising
children I'm not saying that every woman
should raise children and that they
shouldn't have a career but if you if
you think that it's easy to raise
children you're out of your fucking mind
it's one of the most difficult things in
the world to just to have the patience
you're dealing with these little people
you have to teach them things you have
to Rick you have to give them love and
constant attention and it's very very
time-consuming it's difficult and these
women are making people in their fucking
bodies it's the most incredible thing
that anyone has ever created humans you
make you make humans in your body I mean
that's insane and I would go through
this whole thing and then I'd say so
ladies I love you I think you're amazing
but let's be honest you don't invent a
lot of shit - this whole thing about
women inventions and then I just talked
about all the great inventions that
women make okay you saddle different
yeah figure out how to do it took a
while to figure out how to do it where
the women thought it was funny
okay where I gave them enough honest
legitimate credit and said funny things
about them that are positive first so
then they feel free to laugh yes I'm not
a dick I just have a point that women
don't invent a lot of shit to say I
don't invent anything that I had to get
really clear about that let's be clear
we're not talking about us I go look I'm
a fucking moron
I'm never invented shit and I'm guessing
you're probably pretty dumb too which is
why you're here listening to me talk
okay I was like we're not talking about
us we're talking about inventors and so
I was trying to remove people from the
tribal male versus female dynamic just
to talk about the fact yeah that in
history there have not been like
relatively a lot of women inventors got
it and so then they fell and then they
laughed then it was funny it was like it
worked out great
it was my closing bit is the same thing
with this the joke that translated
from Portuguese to English and I didn't
have any problem doing this in
Portuguese because we don't have that
much she's talking about race and stuff
it was not that one the n-word but it
was a joke that I used to do that I was
like I saw this guy with a t-shirt
written a 100% black must was proud of
his race run but I pointed to the palm
of his hand and said 99% smile that's a
98% and I hid this joke just translated
it's like this little right yeah yeah so
this is a case of joke that I translate
it works yeah because it's where reading
has a good punch line it's is everything
but people feel very comfortable who not
the black people the people that sit
around the black guy that was that was
that was he was like laughing do you
think it's funny because all of those
people they didn't feel that they were
entitled to laugh around you this kind
of funk it was uncomfortable right but
when I sat up as you know what you talk
about race too much and we don't have
that in Brazil so sometimes there's some
misunderstandings with right I don't so
when I put myself in that position then
I'm just just a mistake that's what I
when I when I'm free to do the same
thing that you did yourself in a
different way well that's that's a
really interesting angle to that really
only someone from another country can
pursue that this angle that like you
have the America is a different culture
than you used to
so what's probably so many differences
oh yeah there's a lot of differences in
Kardashians I don't know how you guys
squashed that shit it's just like Sonia
is like for cheeks fucking hanging
around then we are like they're so silly
nothing to it the celebrity thing yeah
fucking that's that's amazing do you
have Instagram celebrities and YouTube
celebrities in Brazil same kind of thing
yeah yeah we do have a lot of
and people playing video games and kids
my kid watch three people playing video
games right yeah same thing
it's huge over here yeah I know people
make millions of dollars playing video
games crazy like parents tell their kids
don't be a loser play video games but
like wait what are you talking about
these kids are making millions of
dollars what is a loser you work all
fucking year for 50 grand and this guy
is making five hundred thousand dollars
a week planned YouTube yeah playing
fucking videos using Twitter it's
fucking crazy and YouTube gives give you
much more money that it does in Brazil
but we have the same speech of like I
have my Jesus YouTube channel called you
Barbados in Brazil and we are having a
lot of problems with we are getting not
monetizing your videos it's the same
thing we are suffering to the same
problems that well they don't know
exactly what to do because advertisers
are very wary about certain content and
so they have these deals of these
advertisers and so they're trying to
suppress content because they don't want
to minimize they don't want to lose
revenue mm-hmm so what they're trying to
do is make advertisers happy but then
the content creators feel like they're
being censored they are being censored
but they have to understand what's
happening here like this this all this
stuff costs money do you get some of
your videos all the time yeah all the
time yeah they get D monetized they get
D monetized if we talk about specific
subjects or subject yeah no yep yep but
not even showing images just talking
about the subjects just subjects and
we've talked about them and we've we've
complained about a little but basically
I mean Jamie we kind of take this
attitude was nothing we could do we just
kind of keep on truckin you could just
go in it
yeah because you're building much more
danger yeah that money it's not the euro
I mean it's something it's money and you
know it could be thousands of dollars
for each one that they don't monetize
but that's not how I I don't think about
it that way I think about it like well
what's important what's important is
just say what's on your mind and
whatever I'm not gonna change just so
that I get more YouTube ad money said
that would ruin whatever I'm doing so I
think they're gonna work it out in a
better way eventually but
is also a thing called YouTube red and
with YouTube red even if things get
demonetized the people that are paying
for YouTube see you pay for you to read
so you never get any advertisements and
the you still like if you get a certain
amount of people that are I think 50% of
our revenue comes from YouTube read that
somewhere yeah it said to vary the video
to video yeah the time watched kind of
cumulative okay yeah so there's there's
a lot of people are saying look I'd
rather pay X amount of dollars per month
and don't don't put any ads mm-hmm so I
think we're moving towards that that
sort of that model what do you
understand the process as well that is
brands yeah and they're paying the bills
you know what Google is not a Tom free
isn't a free cause it's all all of it is
expensive and they're trying to make
money too so like the only reason for
them to allow someone like you or I to
put a video up is they want to be able
to profit from it so it means they're
not providing a service just because
they're they're good people they're
trying to make money yeah but the thing
which is it is easier for us is that our
revenue comes for shows and we can do a
lot of different stuff they actually get
their money from you too yes and that's
the one that are getting hurt well in
the United States the real issue is
conservative speakers because all these
tech companies whether it's YouTube or
Facebook or what-have-you they all lean
left they're all very left-wing
so right-wing people feel like they get
censored off of all these platforms
before other ones maybe less on Facebook
right because Facebook they they
actually make money off of people paying
attention to shit so the more people
argue about stuff probably the more more
eyes they get there were the money that
they get the most of their money is
people paying you paying Facebook to
promote their company yeah it's not like
yeah and Facebook doesn't you don't make
money off of Facebook right is there
anybody making money off of Facebook
blog posts or yeah yeah there's people
there's monetizing videos videos very
recent but not like writing like say if
you wrote an essay they wouldn't pay for
that specifically right but that's where
like there's a lot of a lot of people
like to comment on things and argue
about things and so if you have
something controversial on Facebook
that's probably value in
because you're gonna get more eyeballs
right there's a lot of value in
controversy it's just like what kind of
controversy so for YouTube the big thing
is they like if you have like well
specifically Twitter Twitter's been
they've had big issues with it Instagram
not so much with conservative people
right you don't hear that as much I
don't think so no it's more of a Twitter
YouTube thing and it's conservatives
feel like they're being pushed out
because almost overwhelmingly all the
tech companies are liberal they're all
very left-wing and very Pro gay rights
trans rights like there's a there's an
example this one woman who's a feminist
who said that a woman is not a man or a
man is not a woman so like a trans woman
she used to be a man and turn into a
woman her take is a man is never a woman
okay this is just and so they told that
you got to remove this she removed it
and apparently took a screenshot of it
and posted it up again she's like okay
I'll delete that and she took a
screenshot and then post it again like
fuck you okay and so then they banned
her for life and now she's suing that
woman Megan what is her name I forget
her yeah I got it right here cuz someone
just sent me something the Sam Harris
just sent me something about it today
her name is Megan Murphy so she's a
feminist and she's just like look you
can't just become a woman
fuck off no and so they're like you're
banned for life and then everybody's
like well you're crazy you can't ban her
oh she's got an opinion
mm-hmm how come she can't have that
opinion like if that's a biological
opinion I mean it might be controversial
it might be rude it might be insensitive
but it's the same process Joe is the
same thing that I lived in Brazil's like
the sponsor doesn't want you to say that
how can you argue it I don't think
that's a sponsor issue because this is
Twitter because I don't think that's a
sponsor sure I think this is a left-wing
corporation okay they've decided to
censor certain type of speech that they
think is offensive and she was
apparently saying it to the person who
was a trans person like a man is never a
woman and by saying that to the trans
person they're saying that it was like
targeted harassment but don't you think
that the end of this process it is about
my
because you think Twitter cared that
much I saw the Twitter guy here for me
did a look that he care about much about
about about the speech side of things
because there are companies so they they
have to pay their bills and they have to
bring sponsors and even brands are more
left side here in this country because
that's where it's sensitive right
because that's where you can you can get
boycotted I think there's definitely
something to what you're saying there
but I think also well yeah if you're a
CEO of a major corporation like Twitter
or something like that you're
responsible to your stockholders you're
responsible to all the people that work
on the board your truck your if you want
to stay CEO you gotta continue to make
more and more money every year you gotta
bring more people to the platform make
the platform more popular and make more
money and in their eyes the way to do
that to maximize that is to limit
harassment limit thinks this these are
our social decisions but they're also
business strategies there's two
different things together at the same
time yeah so it's it's fucking complex
it's tricky yeah and they don't know
what the fuck they're doing this is
uncharted territory though there's never
been a thing like Twitter before there's
never been a thing like Facebook before
we're complete uncharted territory in
2019 but it's amazing man it is amazing
to see people like you and me creating
our own channels we are all NBC's oh
yeah so we don't have to depend on that
that much you just you feel free
that's when creativity comes up that's
when people are is start to be creative
that's when new stuff that's so it
becomes a threat as well well when you
stop and think about the sheer impact
like what what was the number that our
channel got in terms of minutes watched
what was that number looked for for the
year for last year it was 16 point 1
billion minutes watch that's more than
every human on the planet watching a
minute think of that isn't it way more
that's more than double every human on
the planet watching for a minute yeah I
guess you have some fans but that's not
even that it's just that's the the
impact the impact of that is insane
you know negative and positive prone on
all of it the whole thing it's like the
amount of content that gets put out
there and the amount of interactions and
the amount of debate that comes from
that content it's just it doesn't make
any sense and for me the only thing I
could do is just walk away I don't know
what the fuck's going on I just throw it
out there and get the fuck away from it
you don't read anything you read shit I
couldn't you know you get caught up in
all of it you would get caught up in the
negative or maybe even worse caught up
in the positive yeah people kiss your
ass you start believing it so I just put
I try to be humble and if there's an
overwhelming negative reaction I hear
about it having to try to adjust and
address it and and respect the I'm in
this unique position where I do have
this weird sort of platform also talking
about the that you thought that you were
in that informed to do the the Twitter
guy yeah that's why I brought Tim Poole
in because T seems like he's a good
friend as well I met him in Brazil yeah
he went there to cover our protests oh
really yeah now he's a legitimate
investigative independent journalist and
a real honorable guy and honest and
intelligent and well-informed so I knew
he was the perfect guy and we're gonna
do some other things he and I we've got
something that's gonna blow people away
when that happens yeah yeah it's the
message that you're going all wrong as I
was like yeah yeah yeah I can't talk
about it right now but we've got
something cooking that might you have
changed well they're in school right now
see the thing is yeah this happens while
they're in school and then comedy
happens while they're asleep so have it
down to a science you do yeah so what it
is is they go to school okay I get up
with them say either I take them to
school or my wife takes from school and
then I go either work out either I do
yoga or lift weights or jujitsu or
whatever in the morning then I come here
I'm done in the afternoon then I hang
out with them until it's time to eat we
eat dinner and then after dinner they go
to bed they go to bed like eight o'clock
I don't do a set until 10:00 so I leave
the house after that and then you know
my wife is happy to get rid of me come
to the comedy store hangout and then I
so it works I got it down to a science
nice yeah I wanted yeah that's the life
that I wanted unfortunately my wife left
well you were talking about that if you
want to talk about that I do I don't
because it's kind of a crazy story I
actually saved these all stages on my
Netflix oh really
yeah yeah my wife left before a cult she
joined a cult it was crazy but it's like
one of those self-help call yes
but it is a cult there's a lot of cults
it's very dangerous when one person
starts telling another person how you
must live your life these are the
principles this is what you have to do
you have to leave your family you have
to quit your job you have to change the
way you dress you have to change the way
you talk you have to do this and do that
when someone tells you that and they get
a mass group of people to do things like
that it becomes very dangerous sometimes
this is not that direct right sometimes
it's just like okay what was difficult
is that her cult was teaching her that
you gotta love everybody the same which
is awesome if you think about it Jesus
did that I think was the only one who
did that right Jesus was the only one
who was like I don't care I'm not gonna
have kids right I'm gonna date this
prostitute over here and that's okay
that was his life and for my was she she
got when you learned that you when you
learned that you have to love everybody
saying why are you going to focus is
just one man in a marriage and you have
to go home and you kind of leave your
life to yourself mm-hmm
or maybe she didn't love me anymore and
I'm fucking buying the baby there too
that's what some people are very easily
influenced you know that that is a real
real issue and I worry about that
sometimes when I talk to people because
like some people say hey man well they
say hey you changed my life I'm like
listen motherfucker I didn't change shit
you changed your life they're like oh I
don't even know you
I did not change your life don't listen
to me all I'm doing is talking to a
bunch of people all these people have
something to offer everyone has
something to offer but it's not me I'm
an antenna okay I mean if I'm saying
something that resonates with you and it
helps you I'm very happy but don't
listen to me like I know everything I
think is awesome that you do that but
you because you'll know the power that
this have and how you could actually
influence if we be influenced in their
lives very careful of people that do
tell you that they have the answers and
they are the one and they're the smart
ones yeah and you need to listen to them
because that those people are fucking
dangerous because they can get you to do
things that are irreversible they can
get you to leave your family they can
get you to you know to join this fucking
commune and give up all your worldly
belongings then you realize years later
where they're fucking crazy like that
wild wild country documentary that we
were talking about crazy these they
didn't rely mean these people were
Hollywood fucking executives and
producers millionaires no people that
look like on paper they have their life
in order and they want to go and wear
the red clothes and the beads and and
and be a part of this fucking movement
people need a reason to leave people
needs an explanation for things that
they cannot explain yeah and when
there's someone that have no thinks that
they know the answers they can they can
lie because it's the easies it's not
gonna have someone that is going to say
if it's true or not yeah that's also the
danger of a platform and that's a danger
of something like even this podcast a
danger of any platform any time we have
one person that's talking in front of a
microphone and everyone else is
listening it's a it's it's a weird
position to be in and you hear this
person through your earphones or through
your computer screen and you start
thinking that that they're making sense
and that they're right because there's
no one to counter what they're saying in
front of them there's no one with
opposing opinions there's no one and you
you can get written they can get wrapped
up in this position of being a leader as
well people get intoxicated by being a
leader you know being I mean I've seen
it with people that just teach martial
arts a lot of martial arts classes turn
into like very cult-like places I
noticed that especially before the UFC
came around because everyone really
legitimately believed that their martial
arts instructor could kill everyone on
the planet
everyone really believed that in there
like the 80s and the 90s Royce teach
them that it was not through boys boys
Gracie changed the fucking world he
really did he changed the whole world
and he changed our perception of what
martial arts are and what's effective
and what's not but before that I mean I
grew up in a Taekwondo school which was
very discipline and everything everyone
was sir like you would call everyone mr.
Smith or you know mr. O'Malley everyone
mr. Kim
yes sir if someone said something to me
I would always say yes sir yes sir and
it was always bowing it was very strict
and very disciplined and I came from a
very good school but I was around a lot
of schools that weren't good I saw a lot
of very cult-like behavior there was a
lot of men who would take advantage
sexually of their students and they
would you know they would do weird shit
to their students and they would be
almost like running a little sex cult
talking about your karate school
articles kung fu schools that's crazy we
all knew about that and some of them
wound up going to jail I knew I knew
guys that went to jail they went to jail
for rape yeah and they there was people
that like they were in these positions
of power where their students looked at
them like a god and they took advantage
of it and this is uh this is the same
thing it's the same thing as what we're
talking about here when one person has
too much power and influence in a
platform one of the beautiful things
about jiu-jitsu is its informality like
when like my instructor John Jacques
Machado he's the friendliest nicest guy
he's a world champion I mean he's super
respected by all but when you beat him
was like hey hugs and claps and he
doesn't ever pretend to be any of any
roles with everybody it trains with
everyone so it's like the informality
and the brothership and camaraderie in
the family environment that is fostered
by Brazilian jiu-jitsu is very unique in
martial arts and that I think is very
important because the respect comes from
their their ability and from leading by
example it doesn't come from some fake
position of being some master of the
death touch in some all-knowing person
who
top of the mountain we all thought our
instructor could kill everyone on the
planet we really did and when the UFC
came along for a lot of people that was
a just a bucket of cold water thrown in
your face like whoa that little skinny
guy just choked out all those big giant
people what the fuck man so and they
were doing that for a long time in
Brazil like in beaches and going to
houses and going to gyms and just
kicking people's faces okay yeah I mean
look they changed what martial arts are
they really did they boiled it down to
what's most effective and they they took
ground fighting and they turned it into
this perfect sort of blend of leverage
and technique and knowledge and
repetition and training and and they
just they revolutionized joint
manipulation and strangling people they
revolutionized it they changed it it -
it's a totally different thing
there was always submissions in judo
there was always catch wrestling which
had a lot of great submissions that are
still to this day but to put it all
together like like Elio did and Carlos
and all the the gracie clan I mean what
Brazil did for martial arts is probably
one of the single most significant
things that's happened in the thousands
of years of people fighting each other
pretty amazing yeah pretty amazing but
at the same time that was those guys
will shoot your box just fucking meat
and I shit out of each other the shit
out of each other there was a an article
that I read recently where Wanderlei was
talking about the you know he's having
difficulty now because you know he's had
so many war as he fought for so many
years and that he went to some sort of
conference on concussions and CTE and he
had 13 of the 15 symptoms yeah yeah and
he was talking about I forgets things is
he's impulsive all these different
symptoms he had and then the very next
thing he said is but I want to fight
Vitor Belfort
like it fun delays crazy he went my dog
show in he's crazy he decided not to go
like two minutes before he goes and has
changed his mind and he's sweet but at
the same time he's right-wing now he was
just he tried to go he become a
politician really he went to be elected
but no nobody voted oh just like him
wouldn't no one can you see on like
Congress that's good brazil gets it yes
America it's dangerous happens in Brazil
to celebrities forever one of our one of
our most famous congressman's it was a
big brother
oh no that big brother show so
ridiculous it is the worst way to become
a celebrity one of the most watched
shows in Brazil that's crazy
nobody why don't people watch that much
here the due date I don't know anymore
they don't think so for sure what crazy
thing was Omarosa Omarosa who was one of
the big she was a big statue the White
House
Brandes yeah before that she was on fear
factor I when I was the host I didn't
know I had a fucking altercation with
her on fear factor not a bad one but she
accused me being drunk
oh she was like because I was asking her
questions like that doesn't make sense
you joke you're drunk I'm like I'm not
drunk you can't just say I'm drunk
she was ridiculous she was the fear
factor before The Apprentice no she was
on something else first before the
apprentice I think that was it was she
on the apprentice and then fear factor
come on yeah was fear factor before the
apprentice same time just before she got
famous for being on the apprentice she
was like the second season maybe yeah
did I think she was on another show
first and then the apprentice she went
to another reality show after different
is I don't know who I remember that yeah
well the crazy thing is she went from
the White House to Big Brother she was
actually on the first season of The
Apprentice Oh what year was that so she
was on Celebrity Fear Factor we we had a
thousand three two okay so she must have
been on fear factor like 2005 yeah she's
nice though she's just but I would she
stole me I was drunk
what she wasn't elected right she wasn't
on line she was appointed by Trump but
Trump gave so here's what's fucked up
here's what's really I was reading an
article about the what the problems with
what she did when she was in the
Situation Room and these secured White
House rooms
she had her fucking phone recording so
she's sitting there recording shit in
the middle of these these like totally
secure rooms
she's record like Trump is talking she's
got her phone there hmm interesting
and she's recording everything on her
fucking fault and she's like hours and
hours of footage of record recordings
rather which you're not supposed to do
it's like you could be literally
Russians and Chinese and the Iranians
and all the anybody that wants to tune
in could hack into her fucking phone
turn the microphone on and this is
absolute proven technology and they're
using that to listen in the middle of
the Situation Room so if there's some
sort of top-secret shit that's going on
some foreign entity could be listening
in through her phone while she's
recording I don't think they I don't
think they need all that they just
called Trump and asked what happened but
I mean he's he allowed her this you know
I don't know if she's unstable but she
seems a little hospitable to that's a
such a very dangerous thing to do you're
not even supposed to bring your fucking
phone in those rooms and for her to be
recording recording everything it's okay
this is so crazy
but so selfish to like if you are acting
the best you're in a position when
you're working for the White House
you're working for Donald Trump he's the
President of the United States the
biggest superpower in the fucking world
and you were just recording things god I
know that you want to serve yourself I
know you want to help yourself out but
god that seems so crazy you do I mean if
you were Trump and you hired her and you
found out she was recording everything
in the Situation Room he must be like oh
like in conferences with like like
they're talking about important policy
and she's got phone recording and
anybody could be listening but if you
think about it like it's crazy
for him - he - give her some some
credibility yeah because she was an
apprentice seal I didn't think about it
okay the president of nine states is a
guy that was running a friends so he
liked her maybe not like well look she's
very articulate she's good-looking woman
she knows how to speak well she's got a
lot of confidence and power he probably
figured she'd be a great politician
perfect I'm a great politician he's
probably I'm the fucking president I'll
make her she's gonna be my left hand
lady or right hand lady it is not that
it that difficult this in Brazil is not
that difficult for famous people to get
elected in the one they were running for
a congressman cuz there's so many
options if you're known and you get like
one person of the voting you're already
elected but if you go run for like a
mayor or like a governor a governor or
something it becomes a little tricky
because there's like five options and
now you're running against real politics
real politicians who actually have a
plan yeah so if you're running against
like two hundred people you can shine a
little because you're famous yeah we're
starting to see a little bit more than
America like Cynthia Nixon she was on
Sex in the City and then she ran for
which ran for governor in New York right
oh yeah yeah so this there's a few that
few that are starting to branch off into
politics now it's I don't mean did it
happen before Ronald Reagan because he
was famous he's the most famous he I
think he was a movie star he was a
playwright
yeah he was the first guy joking back to
the future you mean like Ronald Reagan
the movie star yeah yeah that was that
was the first he was the first he was
also the first that introduced the
option or his his cabinet was the first
they they got the people that his his
team got the people from the religious
right involved religion was not really a
big part of voting before Ronald Reagan
but Ronald Reagan and though that sort
of kind of Republican they got all these
Evangelic all Christians and
evangelicals okay yeah as a same theme
Brazil yeah what is going on with Brazil
now with your president yeah if there's
a huge connection between politics and
the church right now the evangelical it
wasn't that way before it was a little
bit it was always something because
Brazil is a very evangelical country
right I don't know if you ever watched
like
watching in the middle of the night and
return on your TV and there's this guy
talking that he was like there's a demon
that is running over my soul and there's
like those TV shows called stop
suffering
yeah a sufrir okay it's more like for
those Massacre audiences this churches
everywhere so it is a Joel Olsteen
in America he's a big time of Angelico
Christian he sells out these giant
arenas like 50,000 Peters yes yes but
it's very it's it's it's huge in Brazil
and they have like I don't know forty
percent of the people is evangelical in
Brazil I don't have the numbers right
now but they sure the religious
something huge over there mmm so it was
something that's why we didn't evolve in
a lot of different discussions like
talking about abortion illegal in Brazil
not legal not at all just if you're
raped just if you're raped or if your
kid has like a deformity deformity then
you can have an abortion the woman's
life is threatened yes yes that's the
only cases and that discussion was never
never happened because everybody's
religious if you do like how do you say
when you go public and you ask something
to the people like do you have this here
it's just like you have a kind of a test
we have this in Brazil I don't know how
do you say this in English a test yeah
it's just a test
are you against abortion or your whole a
poll poll okay we can opinion poll yes
if we do a poll in Brazil people will be
against abortion against the
legalization of abortion and against
drugs like seven drugs and everything
what about a morning-after pill now it
is you can take that you can't get that
I don't know I don't know I don't know I
don't know you I bought some so I didn't
yeah in pharmacy so it's okay
I think though I don't know
I don't know but you can abortions not
legal right so we are not having that
discussion because now the president's
connected to the church mm-hmm our
ex-president call Lula he's in jail
right now he's in jail was in jail he
was involved in a huge corruption
scandal scandal and he was like our hope
because he was a poor guy so he was a
government they actually helped the poor
in Brazil he happened with him was he
was involved he he had connections with
different companies and different
industries was giving him money and they
have this thing called cassia boys is
when you're doing a campaign you need to
say how much money you're getting from
all those different brands and
everything so there's thing called cash
alloys which is you get money you spend
the money there's never went on any
banks or anything like that
so it's kind of a you hide that money
mmm
that were had that happens a lot in
Brazil I don't know how to say this in
English but it's something that you hide
the money that you're getting for a
company but if you get elected you kind
of forgive them favors right you help
them get like involved in a construction
a huge construction they're gonna be the
stadium then you help them somehow right
that was what happening in Brazil so
he's in jail now he's in jail and then
he elected a woman in Brazil and she was
impeached and now we have this
right-wing guy called bosun ro he's our
new president and a very right-wing and
connected to the army and connected to
the church so there's a lot of
discussions and abortion and drugs and
everything that we are not gonna have
she's he popular yes yeah is he popular
and also like hated as well yeah of
course there's the left hate the guy you
know did the things that he said he was
like he was kind of crazy but you know
people people loves him how long has he
been the president he's gonna be for
four years he was just elected he
started just January okay you just
started and we don't know what this is
gonna lead us
but the thing is at the same time he's
more liberal because the left in Brazil
all this talk about freedom of speech
and everything else was in our left was
running the country now we got this guy
and he is more liberal and even talking
about the way he's gonna run the country
the economy and politics and speech and
everything else so there's a little hope
in their area as well so it's kind of
tricky because it's danger in one area
and it's kind of a hope in another one I
wish I was saying this in Portuguese it
would be so much easier but listen
brother let's do a show together my
friend any time listen I'm doing a lot
of shows at The Improv The Comedy Store
I'll have you all want to thank you my
friend I want to see you do stuff like a
little show at you that's cool and I
just want to say thank you for
everything you've done for stand-up in
Brazil I think that's amazing thank you
thanks for doing this my thank you thank
you very very much father all right
thank you we'll talk soon bye
[Music]